Practical Implications of GDPR

1)

Name is needed for some final version of our application because it might be used to build a profile for a
user where they can see all the past locations they have checked in. Also, we need a user's name because
we need it to display live checkin information; it wouldn't make sense to have the checkin information of a
user without their name. ID is needed for our application because we need a way to find a user's past checkins
in our database. Without this unique data point, we wont be able to find it; searching by name would not work
because we cannot assume all of our users have unique names. Location is needed as well because in some
final version of the application we might want to show the spots on our map of where a user checked in.
Finally, timestamp is needed because we might use it in some functionality of our final application where we
can find users that have checked in during a certain time frame.


2)

On Facebook, it might be difficult to delete all of the data on a user because it is intertwined with other
users' data. For example, you will have to delete this user's data from other peoples' Friends list,
since the deleted user will have friends that are still active on Facebook, and update the Friend count for
all of the other users. Another example is if a user's post has comments of the deleted user on their post;
by deleting the user's data, the comment count and comment need to be updated on the active user's post as
well. Another factor that might make it difficult to delete all of the data on a user is that Facebook might
want to use some of the user's data for their own statistics. For example, Facebook might want to keep track
of how many posts on average people are making for their own research purposes. However, Facebook needs to
get rid of this data if a user requests to delete their profile. Therefore, it might be difficult to
convince the user to let them keep some data about their usage for their own purposes, and they will
definitely have to let the user know about what they are using.



